---
shorty: Moving from .hdbcds to .hdbtable

# layout: cds-ref
redirect_from: releases/compiler-v2
#status: internal
---

# Moving from deploy format `hdbcds` to `hdbtable`

::: info Not relevant for SAP HANA Cloud
If you are already using SAP HANA Cloud, there is no SAP HANA CDS.
:::

The deploy format `hdbcds` for SAP HANA together with the function [`to.hdbcds`](../node.js/cds-compile#hdbcds) has been deprecated with @sap/cds-compiler@5 and @sap/cds@8. Users are advised to switch to the default format `hdbtable`. This guide provides a step-by-step description for making the switch, including potential issues and workarounds, such as handling annotations `@sql.prepend/append` and dealing with associations.

New CDS features will not be available for deploy format `hdbcds`, and it is going to be removed with one of the
next major releases.

::: info Deploy Format
The deploy format determines only the "medium" how your database model is brought to the database.
The resulting database tables and views are the same, independent of the deploy format.
:::

## Migration Procedure

If your database deployment currently uses hdbcds, it's recommended to switch to the default format, hdbtable. This guide assumes you use @sap/cds@7 or higher. Make sure to read the entire guide before starting the migration process.

1. Ensure your current data model matches the deployed data model.
   <!-- **TBD** must it be exactly the same? Does it also work if the current model
                is changed in comparison to the last deployed model. -->

2. Switch the deploy format from `hdbcds` to the default `hdbtable`. You can do this by removing option `cds.requires.db.deploy-format` from your configuration file(s).
   <!-- requires @sap/cds v7 -->
   <!-- this option is not documented, but mentioned in release notes and the changelog -->

3. Add an entry to `db/undeploy.json` to undeploy the CAP-generated `.hdbcds` files:

    ::: code-group
    
    ```json [db/undeploy.json]
    [
      ...,
      "src/gen/**/*.hdbcds"
    ]
    ```
    :::
    
    <!-- **TODO** Without this entry, during HDI deployment you will get errors like ... -->

4. Build and re-deploy your data model.


By following these steps, the HDI's internal handover mechanism automatically transfers ownership of the tables to the hdbtable plugin. There are some caveats, however:

* If you used annotations `@sql.append` or `sql.prepend`, your model very likely needs to be adapted manually
  before the  migration can be done. See the corresponding section below for more details.
* In some scenarios, the generated hdbcds and hdbtable files do not allow a seamless switchover,
  and a full migration is done for the respective tables.
  The scenarios we have identified so far are explained in separate sections below, for two of them there is a workaround.

::: info Full Table Migration

If HDI detects a difference between the CREATE statement in a hdbtable file and the already deployed
version of a table, it creates a temporary shadow table based on the new structure and copies
existing data into this shadow table.

If the table doesn't contain much data, this process won't significantly impact the system. However, if the table contains a large amount of data, be prepared for a more time-consuming and resource-intensive deployment.

:::


## Annotations

Annotations [`@sql.append/prepend`](../guides/databases#sql-prepend-append) allow to
add native SQL clauses to the generated .hdbtable files,
or to add "native" HANA CDS clauses to the generated .hdbcds files, respectively.

If you have used these annotations in your model, a simple switchover from hdbcds to hdbtable
very likely is not possible, as such an annotation written for hdbcds in general is not valid
for hdbtable. You have to adapt your model prior to the migration.

As we don't know what clauses you have used, we cannot offer any further guidance here.


## Associations

Associations cause issues in the .hdbcds to .hdbtable handover.
For each entity that has associations, the resulting table or view contains a `WITH ASSOCIATIONS` clause,
representing native HANA associations.

When deploying via hdbcds, associations in a CAP CDS entity are reflected by corresponding associations in
the `hdbcds` file generated by the compiler. Upon deployment, the hdbcds plugin of HDI generates a `CREATE TABLE`
statement, where the associations are represented in a `WITH ASSOCIATIONS` clause.
When deploying via hdbtable, the compiler directly writes the `CREATE TABLE` statements with the `WITH ASSOCIATIONS`
clause into the generated `hdbtable` and `hdbview` files.
These clauses slightly differ, which causes a full table migration when switching from hdbcds to hdbtable.

The CAP Java runtime and the CAP Nodejs runtime with the new SAP HANA service (`@cap-js/hana`, default in @sap/cds@8)
don't need the `WITH ASSOCIATIONS` clause anymore. This allows us to avoid the full table migration by removing
the `associations` from the `hdbcds` sources __before__ the actual `hdbcds` to `hdbtable` migration.

First switch off the generation of the `associations` (that option accounts for "associations" in the `hdbcds`
sources as well as for the `WITH ASSOCIATIONS` found in the `hdbtable` sources):

::: code-group

```json [.cdsrc.json]
{
  "sql": {
    "native_hana_associations": false
  }
}
```
:::
<!-- this option is available only with CDS 8 -->

Then run a new build and deploy the newly generated `.hdbcds` files.
In contrast to the hdbtable plugin, the hdbcds plugin is able to handle removal of the
native associations without a full table migration.
The resulting database tables and views don't contain any `associations` anymore.

::: warning Requirements

This workaround requires
* @sap/cds@8,
* that you use CAP Java or the CAP Nodejs runtime with the new HANA database service `@cap-js/hana`,
* and that your custom coding doesn't use the native associations on the database.

:::


<!--
  full syntax in mta for try_fast is:
  com.sap.hana.di.table/try_fast_table_migration: "true"
-->


## Multiline Doc Comments

This is only relevant if you have switched on [Doc Comments](../cds/cdl#doc-comments-%E2%80%94)
and if you have enabled translation of doc comments to the `COMMENT` feature in the database.

Doc comments can span across multiple lines:

```cds
entity Employees {
  key ID : Integer;
  /**
    * I am the description for "name".
    * I span across multiple lines.
    */
  name : String;
}
```

When deploying via hdbcds, doc comments in a CAP CDS entity are reflected by corresponding `@Comment` annotations in
the `hdbcds` file generated by the compiler. Upon deployment, the hdbcds plugin of HDI generates a `CREATE TABLE`
statement, where the doc comments are represented by `COMMENT` clauses.
When deploying via hdbtable, the compiler directly writes the `CREATE TABLE` statements with the `COMMENT`
clauses into the generated `hdbtable` and `hdbview` files.
These `COMMENT` clauses slightly differ, which causes a full table migration when switching from hdbcds to hdbtable.

If you don't actually need the comments in the database, you can remove them as a preparation step
__before__ you do the hdbcds to hdbtable migration.
This is similar to the workaround described above for the `WITH ASSOCIATIONS` clause.

::: warn
If you need the comments in the database, this workaround will not help,
because switching them back on after moving to hdbtable will then result in a full table migration.
:::

First disable the doc comments by adapting your `.cdsrc.json`:
::: code-group
```json [cdsrc.json]
{
  "hana": {
    "comments": false
  }
}
```
:::

Then run a new build and deploy the newly generated `.hdbcds` files.
The `@Comment` annotations have vanished from the `hdbcds` files, thus
the resulting database tables and views don't contain the `COMMENT` clause anymore.
In contrast to the hdbtable plugin, the hdbcds plugin is able to handle removal of the
`COMMENT`s without a full table migration.


## Temporal Data with Time Slice IDs

Temporal Data with [Time Slice IDs](../guides/temporal-data#adding-time-slice-ids)
is a conceptual feature, thus it shouldn't occur in productive applications.
We nevertheless mention it here for completeness.

Example:
```cds
// usually taken from '@sap/cds/common'
aspect temporal {
  validFrom : Timestamp @cds.valid.from;
  validTo   : Timestamp @cds.valid.to;
}

entity TimeDependentData : temporal {
  key ID  : UUID;
  sliceId : UUID @cds.valid.key;
  someData : String;
}
```

In this example, entity `TimeDependentData` can't be seamlessly migrated and a full table migration will take place.
