<!-- this file is automatically generated and updated by a github action -->
<pre class="log">
> cds watch --help

<strong>SYNOPSIS</strong>
  <em>cds watch</em> [&lt;project&gt;]

  Tells cds to watch for relevant things to come or change in the specified
  project or the current work directory. Compiles and (re-)runs the server
  on every change detected.

  Actually, cds watch is just a convenient shortcut for:
  <em>cds serve all --with-mocks --in-memory?</em>

<strong>OPTIONS</strong>
  <em>--port</em> &lt;number&gt;

    Specify the port on which the launched server listens.
    If you specify '0', the server picks a random free port.
    Alternatively, specify the port using env variable <i>PORT</i>.

  <em>--ext</em> &lt;extensions&gt;

    Specify file extensions to watch for in a comma-separated list.
    <em>Example:</em> cds w --ext cds,json,js.

  <em>--include</em> &lt;paths,...&gt;

    Comma-separated list of additional paths to watch.

  <em>--exclude</em> &lt;paths,...&gt;

    Comma-separated list of additional paths to ignore.

  <em>--livereload</em> &lt;port | false&gt;

    Specify the port for the livereload server. Defaults to '35729'.
    Disable it with value <i>false</i>.

  <em>--open</em> &lt;url&gt;

    Open the given URL (suffix) in the browser after starting.
    If none is given, the default application URL will be opened.

  <em>--profile</em> &lt;profile,...&gt;

    Specify from which profile(s) the binding information is taken.
    <em>Example:</em> cds w --profile hybrid,production

  <em>--debug</em> / <em>--inspect</em> &lt;host:port | 127.0.0.1:9229&gt;

    Activate debugger on the given host:port.
    If port 0 is specified, a random available port will be used.

  <em>--inspect-brk</em> &lt;host:port | 127.0.0.1:9229&gt;

    Activate debugger on the given host:port and break at start of user script.
    If port 0 is specified, a random available port will be used.

<strong>SEE ALSO</strong>
  <em>cds serve --help</em> for the different start options.
</pre>
