<!-- this file is automatically generated and updated by a github action -->
<pre class="log">
> cds compile --help

<strong>SYNOPSIS</strong>
  <em>cds compile</em> &lt;models&gt; [&lt;options&gt;]

  Compiles the specified models to CSN format, applying processors to unfold
  and generate target outputs using the &lt;options&gt;.
  

<strong>OPTIONS</strong>  

  <em>-2</em> | <em>--to</em> &lt;target format&gt;

    Compiles the given models to the specified &lt;target format&gt;.
    Currently supported:

    - json, yml
    - edm, edmx, edmx-v2, edmx-v4, edmx-w4, edmx-x4
    - sql, hdbcds, hdbtable, hana
    - cdl
    - xsuaa
    - openapi
    - asyncapi

  <em>-4</em> | <em>--for</em> &lt;target&gt;

    Unfolds the compiled CSN for the specified &lt;target&gt; usages,
    or get a comma-separated list, without generating target formats.
    Currently supported:

    - odata
    - sql

  <em>--dialect</em> &lt;dialect&gt;

    Needs option <em>--to</em>.
    Specify the dialect in combination with <em>--to sql</em>.
    Currently supported:

    - sqlite
    - h2
    - postgres
    - hana

  <em>-s</em> | <em>--service</em> &lt;name&gt; | all

    Chooses a specific service or <i>all</i> to force output for all services.
    The service name must be fully qualified, including the namespace, if any.

  <em>-l</em> | <em>--lang</em> &lt;languages&gt; | all

    Localizes the output with given &lt;languages&gt;, a comma-separated list
    of language/locale codes or <i>all</i>.
    Localization is carried out before all other processors (-4/u) or backends (-2).

  <em>-o</em> | <em>--dest</em> &lt;folder&gt;

    Writes output to the given folder instead of stdout.

  <em>-f</em> | <em>--flavor</em> sources | files | parsed | xtended | inferred

    Depending on the argument, returns a model with the given level of detail:

      sources:  paths and content of all resolved source files
      files:    paths of all effectively referenced files
      parsed:   the definitions and extensions, without applying the
                extensions or includes, and without imported definitions.
      xtended:  the definitions with all imports and extensions resolved,
                but without any derived information
      inferred: the effective model, including imported definitions, extensions,
                and derived information.  This is the default flavor.

  <em>--parse</em>

    Shortcut for '--flavor parsed'

  <em>--plain</em>

    Shortcut for '--flavor xtended'

  <em>--docs</em>

    Preserves /**...*/ doc comments in 'doc' properties of CSN outputs,
    as well as in 'Core.Description' annotations of EDMX outputs.

  <em>--locations</em>

    Preserves $location properties of CSN outputs.

  <em>--log-level</em> debug | info | warn | error

    Chooses which level of compiler messages to log. The default log-level is <em>warn</em>.

  <em>--openapi:url</em> &lt;Server URL for Open API export&gt;

    The server URL used in the generated OpenAPI document. The default is the service
    base path as declared in the CDS source.
    Use the ${service-path} variable to have the service path included in the URL.

  <em>--openapi:servers</em> &lt;Stringified JSON Object for Open API export&gt;

    The servers definition used in the generated OpenAPI document. <em>--openapi:url</em> is
    ignored when this option is specified.

    <em>--odata-version</em> 4.0|4.01

    Adds the OData version's functionality of the input CDS/CSN file to the generated OpenAPI document.

  <em>--openapi:diagram</em>

    Include YUML diagram in the generated OpenAPI document, default: <em>false</em>.

  <em>--openapi:config-file</em> filename

    The passed configuration file will be read to generate the OpenAPI document, incorporating all specified options.
    Precedence of Options: Inline options specified in the command line will take precedence over those defined in the configuration file.

  <em>--asyncapi:merged</em>

    A single AsyncAPI document is generated using the details of all input services. Information of <i>title</i>
    and <i>version</i> should be provided as preset.

<strong>EXAMPLES</strong>
   <em>cds</em> compile model.cds
   <em>cds</em> c model.json --to sql
   <em>cds</em> srv -s all -l all -2 edmx -o [4mout
   <em>cds</em> compile srv -s sap.sample.TestService -2 asyncapi -o [0mout
</pre>
